# RDKitGSoC2017
## RDKit - 3Dmol.js integration
#### Mentors: Paul Czodrowski and Greg Landrum<br>Acknowledgement: Peter Gedeck reviewed, provided advice on restructuring, and wrote initial MolViewState class. <br>Date: 29th August 2017<br>Email: malitha12345@gmail.com
#### Disclaimer: We could not accomplished everything proposed in GSoC 2017 project proposal. We are still working on it!
#### To visitor: We appriciate your ideas on adding new features in it. So, please don't hesitate to drop your words. 
### Our Accomplishement
- We have created a maintainable codesbase (most important concern in open source community).
- We have implemented 3D molecule viewer for the first time in RDKit and it includes conformer (ligand) browsing.
- We have utilized RDKit "standard Mol object" (created by reading PDB file) to separate protein and ligand.
- We have defined a data structure (a nested dictionary) that can be used in analysis of small molecule.
- We have enabled the 3D molecule viewer to show SD file properties and minimization energy through ipython widgets.
### Brief Description
- To facilitate data visualization, we are providing a function that takes a dictionary of molecule and yields another dictionary of molecules putting additional dict keys in it to allow 3D visualization.
- To validate what has been seen in the viwer, we have kept the property (descriptor) calculation and energy minimization function outside the molecule visualization system and no calculation on molecule/conformer performed within the visualization system. So, anything shown in the viewer can be checked instantly through writing python codes. We hope to add more stuffs with the property (descriptor) calculation and energy minimization system to make it more useful.
- A completely isolated python class got the codes for widgets rendering, widgets update, and molecule rendering persisting most recent visualization state. We call this python class "MolView3D".
- Data and molecules rendered in viewer through "MolView3D" are generated by another class called "MolStateView". This class takes the dictionary of molecules and process all the data on widgets call.
### Input for MolView3D
- Any RDKit mol object can be viewed after putting it in a dictionary having molecule ids as keys of dictionary
- Representation includes for protein : cartoon, surface, line
- Representation includes for ligand : line, cross, stick, ball-stick, surface
### Submitted Codes to Mentors for Evaluation
- Notebook demonstrating usability: https://github.com/malithakabir/RDKitGSoC2017/blob/master/BrowseMultimolsV8.ipynb
- Visualization codes (Acknowledging Peter Gedeck): https://github.com/malithakabir/RDKitGSoC2017/blob/master/IPythonConsoleIntegration.py
- Ligand extraction codes (mainly written by Greg Landrum): https://github.com/malithakabir/RDKitGSoC2017/blob/master/LigandExtract.py
### Contributions
- Paul Czodrowski was involved in answering questions, writing proposal, defining directions, communicating with Peter Gedeck and Brian Kelly for code review and merge respectively, and final work product submission. He offered a lot of disscussion over google handout, emails, and gmail's chat service. 
- Greg Landrum was involed in deciding how the code should be written and he appeared at every critical time. He wrote the ligand extarction system and pushed to me to modify that. 
- Peter Gedeck reviewed codes several times, wrote inital implementation of MolStateView class. His directions has made the codes maintainable.
- David Koes solved py3Dmol related issues with detail example.
- Brian Kelly reviewed for code mergability.
- Malitha Humayun Kabir wrote most of the codes and was the participant of Google Summer of Codes (GSoc) 2017.
### We appriciate your time here. Thank you very much for looking in it. Have a great day!
